Okay, so picking up from where we left off
with the cat command,
the next command I wanna show you is called grep.
So it's used for string searches, really.
It's extremely powerful.
I use it a lot of the time,
and it helps philtre down lines and matches
what you're searching for.
If I cut out that file again,
I can pipe to grep and it will take the output from cat
and use it to input to grep,
and we can just search for
all the lines that contain the word get.
So, this'll print out a whole bunch of lines.
Now, you might be able to tell,
but some of these lines are wrapping.
I can tell by just resizing here.
But it's not every clear,
so I can see that's getting out of bed,
my aim was to get, then it says I.
And grep and has a whole bunch of extra little arguments
that make grep a little more powerful.
One of them is the line number that match, for instance.
So, I can use a grep -n,
and it'll give me the line number
that it found the term get,
so I can see line 125, line 135,
and that is one entire line here, and then 149, 162,
and so on.
We can also, instead of actually show those lines,
we can count those lines.
Again, something I use quite a lot actually.
So count the number of occurrences of the word get
in that file, seven.
Grep can also take a file name as an argument,
so we can do the same thing,
but just put the file name as the argument,
and it'll do the same thing.
There's a whole bunch of extra things that grep can do.
It's worth having a look at the manual for it.
So man flies up the ReadMe basically for the grep command.
I'm a super fan of the manuals because I find
it a little tricky to navigate and so on.
You can just as easily fire up Google
and search for the, I tend to search UNIX grep,
and it will give you what you're looking for.
A couple of extra things, actually bonus bits,
the after and before, I find is quite useful sometimes
when you're looking for a bit of context.
So we go back to this.
If we grep with line numbers,
we'll do -A 2 and -B 2.
What we're getting is the two lines before
and the two lines after,
and the line numbers for where the word get
appears in this stream of input.
So you can see now, have a bit of context
of what I'm looking at.
So you can see, here is the match,
and there's the two lines before
and the two lines after.
So I can see there's some paragraphs
about my body fat and so on.
It's pretty useful,
definitely worth having a look at what grep can actually do.
But even if you just use it for basic things,
like accounting, it's definitely worth using.
It's worth also showing you
that you can use some regular expressions.
So, let's go back to catting.
What we can look for is the hash symbol.
Because I was mark down,
this will match any heading in mark down.
Oops.
Grep, oh, let's put that in quotes.
The reason I have to put that in quotes
is because a hash symbol is also a comment
on the UNIX command,
so it just treated that as grep without any arguments.
So we're searching for the string hash.
So, like I was saying, because I've written it in mark down,
it should match all the headings,
but it's also matched this one,
which has got just a sentence with a hash in the middle,
so we'll just have a quick look,
oh no, not -c, -n.
Line number, it's just matched some arbitrary sentence,
not interested in that.
What we are interested in is if the hash
is at the beginning of the line.
And to do that, we do a little caret.
So if you're, again, familiar with regular expressions,
you'll recognise this as the caret means starts with,
and then the hash symbol.
And now, we only get the headings
that start with the hash symbol.
So it has some regular expression supports.
I tend to kind of use this in a limited fashion.
There's also an extension version of grep
which is called egrep.
You might have spotted it in the manual,
right at the top, grep, egrep.
These other ones, personally I've never used.
Or zgrep I've used, I think.
But egrep is kinda of regular expression
version of grep, but there is, like we've already seen,
some basic support for regular expressions.
And if you want to brush up
on your regular expressions a little bit,
highly recommend regexp101.com, I think it is.
Yeah, regexp101.com, very good site
for practising  regular expressions.
What you can do is, you can take this file
and just stick it into here for testing.
I tend to go with just java script.
Or, if you fancy it, you can do pbcopy, paste board copy.
That will pipe that into copy/paste,
and then we can test our regular expression here.
Then we go till we find one match.
Whatever.
Yeah, so there's a good place to practise
your regular expressions, if you wanna play around.